# MXCuBE Steering Committee Minutes

### When:

Friday, November 22nd 2024

### Where:

Trieste (Elettra Synchrotron)

### Participants (10):

Nicola Demitri and Roberto Borghes (ELETTRA), Gerard Bricogne (GLOBAL PHASING), Daniele de Sanctis (ESRF), Judith Juanhuix (ALBA), Gleb Bourenkov (EMBL), Wenming Qin (NFPSS), Manfred Weiss (HZB), Ana Gonzalez (MAX IV), Ralf Siebrecht (ARINAX), William Shepard (SOLEIL)

### Minutes:

* Next meeting will happen in Spring 2025 (second half of May?) and will be hosted in Hamburg. Gleb will discuss with Johanna regarding a joint organization and they will get back to us with a proposed date.   
    
  *EDIT* (info from StC email sent on 26th November 2024): Gleb and Johanna confirm that EMBL and DESY will host the MXCuBE/ISPyB meeting and MXCuBE code camp in May 2025 in Hamburg. They propose to do it with the following structure: on May 19th to 21st; with code camp on the 19th, MXCUBE meeting 20th and ISPYB on the 21st.  
    
* The MXCuBE meeting at the end of 2025 will likely be organised by DLS/GPhL and held in the UK. It is proposed to invite some “power users” to the meeting for discussion.  
* Next meeting will include a thematic day with a Code Camp. A scientific thematic session will still be present but it will cover no more than half of the day.   
* The Steering Committee backs the decisions on YAML configuration taken by the Developers’ Committee. Status of porting MXCuBE configuration to YAML format could be presented at the next meeting.  
* Daniele reported that the MXCube Collaboration Agreement renewal process (signed by the parties in October 2024\) has been completed and the whole process was fast and smooth. It is valid for 5 years.  
* The template for the status report was reviewed and considered still valid. Everyone is reminded to stick to the template as much as possible and request a dedicated slot in the Developers and Scientific session if other developments or highlights need to be presented.  
* The Steering Committee is in favour of the idea of a code review and thinks the costs should be investigated. Daniele will get in contact with Jean-François Perrin (head of ESRF IT) to discuss the code audit, which should cover the latest MXCuBE code (both core and web). Daniele will also discuss with ESRF administration to find a convenient way to organize the payment  
* Steering Committee is favorable to LS-CAT from APS joining the collaboration. Daniele will send to them relevant documents for evaluation (i.e. Memorandum of Understanding, Collaboration agreement’ text).  
* If the LS-CAT team is joining, they might be required to arrange a penetration test, which could be beneficial for cybersecurity analysis. LS-CAT promises to check possibilities through DoE. It is proposed that one might have one facility do penetration tests on another, to save the cost of hiring professionals.  
* Automation working group chaired by Didier Nurizzo will start its activity in the coming weeks with the first meeting. Partners are requested to indicate a spokesperson if interested in participating in the discussion. It is recommended to include both scientists and developers in the Working Group. The Automation WG should report at the May MXCuBE meeting to see how far along the work has come.  
* More working groups coordinators will be identified at the next developers and scientists meetings.  
* As also recommended by the ISPyB Steering Committee, there should be a follow-up meeting to the 2019 Data Quality Metrics Workshop (DQMW) to gather input from scientists and users into software development, with contents to be made public on the DQMW web site.  
  